docs/en/guides/parking-management.md, before:

---
comments: true
description: Optimize parking spaces and enhance safety with Ultralytics YOLO11. Explore real-time vehicle detection and smart parking solutions.
keywords: parking management, YOLO11, Ultralytics, vehicle detection, real-time tracking, parking lot optimization, smart parking
---

# Parking Management using Ultralytics YOLO11 🚀

## What is Parking Management System?

Parking management with [Ultralytics YOLO11](https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics/) ensures efficient and safe parking by organizing spaces and monitoring availability. YOLO11 can improve parking lot management through real-time vehicle detection, and insights into parking occupancy.

<p align="center">
  <br>
  <iframe loading="lazy" width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WwXnljc7ZUM"
    title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
    allowfullscreen>
  </iframe>
  <br>
  <strong>Watch:</strong> How to Implement Parking Management Using Ultralytics YOLO 🚀
</p>

## Advantages of Parking Management System?

- **Efficiency**: Parking lot management optimizes the use of parking spaces and reduces congestion.
- **Safety and Security**: Parking management using YOLO11 improves the safety of both people and vehicles through surveillance and security measures.
- **Reduced Emissions**: Parking management using YOLO11 manages traffic flow to minimize idle time and emissions in parking lots.

## Real World Applications

|                                                                     Parking Management System                                                                      |                                                                      Parking Management System                                                                       |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| ![Parking lots Analytics Using Ultralytics YOLO11](https://github.com/ultralytics/docs/releases/download/0/parking-management-aerial-view-ultralytics-yolov8.avif) | ![Parking management top view using Ultralytics YOLO11](https://github.com/ultralytics/docs/releases/download/0/parking-management-top-view-ultralytics-yolov8.avif) |
|                                                      Parking management Aerial View using Ultralytics YOLO11                                                       |                                                         Parking management Top View using Ultralytics YOLO11                                                         |

## Parking Management System Code Workflow

### Selection of Points

!!! tip "Point Selection is now Easy"

    Choosing parking points is a critical and complex task in parking management systems. Ultralytics streamlines this process by providing a tool that lets you define parking lot areas, which can be utilized later for additional processing.

- Capture a frame from the video or camera stream where you want to manage the parking lot.
- Use the provided code to launch a graphical interface, where you can select an image and start outlining parking regions by mouse click to create polygons.

!!! warning "Image Size"

    Max Image Size of 1920 * 1080 supported

!!! example "Parking slots Annotator Ultralytics YOLO11"

    === "Parking Annotator"

        ```python
        from ultralytics import solutions

        solutions.ParkingPtsSelection()
        ```

- After defining the parking areas with polygons, click `save` to store a JSON file with the data in your working directory.

![Ultralytics YOLO11 Points Selection Demo](https://github.com/ultralytics/docs/releases/download/0/ultralytics-yolov8-points-selection-demo.avif)

### Python Code for Parking Management

!!! example "Parking management using YOLO11 Example"

    === "Parking Management"

        ```python
        import cv2

        from ultralytics import solutions

        # Video capture
        cap = cv2.VideoCapture("Path/to/video/file.mp4")
        assert cap.isOpened(), "Error reading video file"
        w, h, fps = (int(cap.get(x)) for x in (cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_WIDTH, cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_HEIGHT, cv2.CAP_PROP_FPS))

        # Video writer
        video_writer = cv2.VideoWriter("parking management.avi", cv2.VideoWriter_fourcc(*"mp4v"), fps, (w, h))

        # Initialize parking management object
        parking_manager = solutions.ParkingManagement(
            model="yolo11n.pt",  # path to model file
            json_file="bounding_boxes.json",  # path to parking annotations file
        )

        while cap.isOpened():
            ret, im0 = cap.read()
            if not ret:
                break
            im0 = parking_manager.process_data(im0)
            video_writer.write(im0)

        cap.release()
        video_writer.release()
        cv2.destroyAllWindows()
        ```

### Optional Arguments `ParkingManagement`

| Name        | Type  | Default | Description                                                    |
| ----------- | ----- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `model`     | `str` | `None`  | Path to the YOLO11 model.                                      |
| `json_file` | `str` | `None`  | Path to the JSON file, that have all parking coordinates data. |

### Arguments `model.track`

{% include "macros/track-args.md" %}

## FAQ

### How does Ultralytics YOLO11 enhance parking management systems?

Ultralytics YOLO11 greatly enhances parking management systems by providing **real-time vehicle detection** and monitoring. This results in optimized usage of parking spaces, reduced congestion, and improved safety through continuous surveillance. The [Parking Management System](https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics) enables efficient traffic flow, minimizing idle times and emissions in parking lots, thereby contributing to environmental sustainability. For further details, refer to the [parking management code workflow](#python-code-for-parking-management).

### What are the benefits of using Ultralytics YOLO11 for smart parking?

Using Ultralytics YOLO11 for smart parking yields numerous benefits:

- **Efficiency**: Optimizes the use of parking spaces and decreases congestion.
- **Safety and Security**: Enhances surveillance and ensures the safety of vehicles and pedestrians.
- **Environmental Impact**: Helps in reducing emissions by minimizing vehicle idle times. More details on the advantages can be seen [here](#advantages-of-parking-management-system).

### How can I define parking spaces using Ultralytics YOLO11?

Defining parking spaces is straightforward with Ultralytics YOLO11:

1. Capture a frame from a video or camera stream.
2. Use the provided code to launch a GUI for selecting an image and drawing polygons to define parking spaces.
3. Save the labeled data in JSON format for further processing. For comprehensive instructions, check the [selection of points](#selection-of-points) section.

### Can I customize the YOLO11 model for specific parking management needs?

Yes, Ultralytics YOLO11 allows customization for specific parking management needs. You can adjust parameters such as the **occupied and available region colors**, margins for text display, and much more. Utilizing the `ParkingManagement` class's [optional arguments](#optional-arguments-parkingmanagement), you can tailor the model to suit your particular requirements, ensuring maximum efficiency and effectiveness.

### What are some real-world applications of Ultralytics YOLO11 in parking lot management?

Ultralytics YOLO11 is utilized in various real-world applications for parking lot management, including:

- **Parking Space Detection**: Accurately identifying available and occupied spaces.
- **Surveillance**: Enhancing security through real-time monitoring.
- **Traffic Flow Management**: Reducing idle times and congestion with efficient traffic handling. Images showcasing these applications can be found in [real-world applications](#real-world-applications).

Commit message:

Add extra step for installing 'tkinter' on macOS

docs/en/guides/parking-management.md, after:

---
comments: true
description: Optimize parking spaces and enhance safety with Ultralytics YOLO11. Explore real-time vehicle detection and smart parking solutions.
keywords: parking management, YOLO11, Ultralytics, vehicle detection, real-time tracking, parking lot optimization, smart parking
---

# Parking Management using Ultralytics YOLO11 🚀

## What is Parking Management System?

Parking management with [Ultralytics YOLO11](https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics/) ensures efficient and safe parking by organizing spaces and monitoring availability. YOLO11 can improve parking lot management through real-time vehicle detection, and insights into parking occupancy.

<p align="center">
  <br>
  <iframe loading="lazy" width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WwXnljc7ZUM"
    title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
    allowfullscreen>
  </iframe>
  <br>
  <strong>Watch:</strong> How to Implement Parking Management Using Ultralytics YOLO 🚀
</p>

## Advantages of Parking Management System?

- **Efficiency**: Parking lot management optimizes the use of parking spaces and reduces congestion.
- **Safety and Security**: Parking management using YOLO11 improves the safety of both people and vehicles through surveillance and security measures.
- **Reduced Emissions**: Parking management using YOLO11 manages traffic flow to minimize idle time and emissions in parking lots.

## Real World Applications

|                                                                     Parking Management System                                                                      |                                                                      Parking Management System                                                                       |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| ![Parking lots Analytics Using Ultralytics YOLO11](https://github.com/ultralytics/docs/releases/download/0/parking-management-aerial-view-ultralytics-yolov8.avif) | ![Parking management top view using Ultralytics YOLO11](https://github.com/ultralytics/docs/releases/download/0/parking-management-top-view-ultralytics-yolov8.avif) |
|                                                      Parking management Aerial View using Ultralytics YOLO11                                                       |                                                         Parking management Top View using Ultralytics YOLO11                                                         |

## Parking Management System Code Workflow

### Selection of Points

!!! tip "Point Selection is now Easy"

    Choosing parking points is a critical and complex task in parking management systems. Ultralytics streamlines this process by providing a tool that lets you define parking lot areas, which can be utilized later for additional processing.

- Capture a frame from the video or camera stream where you want to manage the parking lot.
- Use the provided code to launch a graphical interface, where you can select an image and start outlining parking regions by mouse click to create polygons.

!!! warning "Image Size"

    Max Image Size of 1920 * 1080 supported

!!! example "Parking slots Annotator Ultralytics YOLO11"

    === "Parking Annotator"

        ```python
        from ultralytics import solutions

        solutions.ParkingPtsSelection()
        ```

!!! note "Additional step for macOS"

    If you are using macOS, first [install Homebrew](https://brew.sh) and then install tkinter using `brew install python-tk` to install `tkinter` package which is needed for the parking slots annotator tool.

- After defining the parking areas with polygons, click `save` to store a JSON file with the data in your working directory.

![Ultralytics YOLO11 Points Selection Demo](https://github.com/ultralytics/docs/releases/download/0/ultralytics-yolov8-points-selection-demo.avif)

### Python Code for Parking Management

!!! example "Parking management using YOLO11 Example"

    === "Parking Management"

        ```python
        import cv2

        from ultralytics import solutions

        # Video capture
        cap = cv2.VideoCapture("Path/to/video/file.mp4")
        assert cap.isOpened(), "Error reading video file"
        w, h, fps = (int(cap.get(x)) for x in (cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_WIDTH, cv2.CAP_PROP_FRAME_HEIGHT, cv2.CAP_PROP_FPS))

        # Video writer
        video_writer = cv2.VideoWriter("parking management.avi", cv2.VideoWriter_fourcc(*"mp4v"), fps, (w, h))

        # Initialize parking management object
        parking_manager = solutions.ParkingManagement(
            model="yolo11n.pt",  # path to model file
            json_file="bounding_boxes.json",  # path to parking annotations file
        )

        while cap.isOpened():
            ret, im0 = cap.read()
            if not ret:
                break
            im0 = parking_manager.process_data(im0)
            video_writer.write(im0)

        cap.release()
        video_writer.release()
        cv2.destroyAllWindows()
        ```

### Optional Arguments `ParkingManagement`

| Name        | Type  | Default | Description                                                    |
| ----------- | ----- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `model`     | `str` | `None`  | Path to the YOLO11 model.                                      |
| `json_file` | `str` | `None`  | Path to the JSON file, that have all parking coordinates data. |

### Arguments `model.track`

{% include "macros/track-args.md" %}

## FAQ

### How does Ultralytics YOLO11 enhance parking management systems?

Ultralytics YOLO11 greatly enhances parking management systems by providing **real-time vehicle detection** and monitoring. This results in optimized usage of parking spaces, reduced congestion, and improved safety through continuous surveillance. The [Parking Management System](https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics) enables efficient traffic flow, minimizing idle times and emissions in parking lots, thereby contributing to environmental sustainability. For further details, refer to the [parking management code workflow](#python-code-for-parking-management).

### What are the benefits of using Ultralytics YOLO11 for smart parking?

Using Ultralytics YOLO11 for smart parking yields numerous benefits:

- **Efficiency**: Optimizes the use of parking spaces and decreases congestion.
- **Safety and Security**: Enhances surveillance and ensures the safety of vehicles and pedestrians.
- **Environmental Impact**: Helps in reducing emissions by minimizing vehicle idle times. More details on the advantages can be seen [here](#advantages-of-parking-management-system).

### How can I define parking spaces using Ultralytics YOLO11?

Defining parking spaces is straightforward with Ultralytics YOLO11:

1. Capture a frame from a video or camera stream.
2. Use the provided code to launch a GUI for selecting an image and drawing polygons to define parking spaces.
3. Save the labeled data in JSON format for further processing. For comprehensive instructions, check the [selection of points](#selection-of-points) section.

### Can I customize the YOLO11 model for specific parking management needs?

Yes, Ultralytics YOLO11 allows customization for specific parking management needs. You can adjust parameters such as the **occupied and available region colors**, margins for text display, and much more. Utilizing the `ParkingManagement` class's [optional arguments](#optional-arguments-parkingmanagement), you can tailor the model to suit your particular requirements, ensuring maximum efficiency and effectiveness.

### What are some real-world applications of Ultralytics YOLO11 in parking lot management?

Ultralytics YOLO11 is utilized in various real-world applications for parking lot management, including:

- **Parking Space Detection**: Accurately identifying available and occupied spaces.
- **Surveillance**: Enhancing security through real-time monitoring.
- **Traffic Flow Management**: Reducing idle times and congestion with efficient traffic handling. Images showcasing these applications can be found in [real-world applications](#real-world-applications).
